A total knee replacement, or arthroplasty,
is a surgical procedure to remove
damaged portions of your knee joint
and replace them with plastic and metal implants.
The knee joint is formed by the
femur (or thigh bone);
the tibia (or shin bone);
and the patella (or knee cap).
The end of each bone is covered with a layer
of smooth cartilage that cushions and protects
the bones during movement.
To begin the procedure,
your surgeon makes an incision
down the front of your knee.
The first part of your knee that is exposed
is your patella, or kneecap.
Your surgeon rotates the patella to the side.
Damaged bone and cartilage
at the end of your femur
is carefully measured and cut away.
Then your surgeon attaches
the metal femoral component
to the end of your femur.
Next, your surgeon removes damaged bone
and cartilage at the top of the tibia
and the bone is measured and shaped
to fit the tibial components.
A metal tray is fit against the cut top
of the tibia and secured into place.
A plastic insert is snapped into the tibial tray.
The femoral component slides on this tray
as you bend and flex your knee.
Before returning your patella to its normal position,
your surgeon may remove part of the bone
and fit it with a plastic piece
to ensure a proper fit with the rest of your implant.
Your surgeon will ensure correct balance,
alignment, position, and movement of your new knee.
To finish the procedure,
your surgeon will close the incision with stitches or staples.
Knee replacement can significantly
reduce pain and improve function.
Like all surgeries, risks and complications are possible.
Your doctor will explain these to you before surgery.